- [Instructor] While they aren't really
a basic aspect of Maven,
I want to at least introduce archetypes to you
as I have found them to be very powerful constructs
when working with Maven.
So before we get too deep,
let's talk about what they are.
In short, an archetype is a project template using Maven.
You specify an archetype when creating a new project,
if you want to use one,
and Maven will build the project structure
or structures for you based on the template.
This is a great tool for teams
wanting to build consistent artifacts
or to specify specific constructs in the artifacts.
Ultimately, they are a project of their own.
Now, while creating an archetype is outside the scope
of this course,
I do want to give you some high level use cases for it.
I've used them for package structures of artifacts.
When I first introduced restful services
for a company I was working for,
we built a strategy for a reactor build
for each domain web service.
The reactor had an interface, a client,
and a service project.
Each of those projects had a specific package structure
based on the domain.
Because we were very prescriptive at the time
it saved developers a ton of time to use an archetype
than to go reference the documentation standards
and implement the packaging themselves.
In addition, when I used to do monolithic web applications
we used archetypes for our war deployments
to provide the boilerplate JSPs and CSS we use
for all of our applications.
Yes, that was a long time ago,
but for our web applications it worked.
These resources were not part of our code per se,
but we needed them in a specific location
for the web application to work.
As such, the archetype helped us a lot
because that structure wasn't something
I committed to memory.
Now while we aren't going to create one,
Apache has a great step by step process
you can use to create a sample archetype.
And if you are interested,
you may find that it is worth your time.
You also may find that using it in a process
with a framework, like let's say Spring Boot,
you can implement your standards quickly
and get development started that much faster.